# About the CIS Controls Assessment Specification

## Purpose

The CIS Controls provide essential best practices that organizations can
implement to improve their cybersecurity posture. In addition to
implementing the CIS Controls, it is also important that organizations
measure their implementations to ensure that Safeguards are in place and
working properly. The purpose of the CIS Controls Assessment
Specification (CAS) is to provide a common understanding of what should
be measured in order to verify that CIS Safeguards are properly
implemented. The hope is that those developing related tools will then
build these measures into their tools so that the CIS Controls are
measured in a uniform way.

Note that the focus of CAS is on \"what to measure\" rather than \"how
to measure\". With the goal of being platform agnostic, a conscious
effort was made to avoid addressing the \"how to measure\" in writing
CAS, leaving those platform specific details to specific implementations
of these measures. Tool developers will determine the \"hows\" that are
appropriate for their tools and use cases.

## Methodology

The CIS Controls provide cybersecurity best practices designed to help
organizations of all types secure a wide variety of systems. Because the
CIS Controls cover so many security topics, and apply to such a wide
variety of hardware and software that can be used in many different
ways, measuring the CIS Controls is a complex challenge. Different
approaches to measuring the Controls can result in multiple ways of
measuring the same Sub-Control.

One useful distinction is measuring whether a Sub-Control has been
implemented vs. measuring how well the Safeguard was implemented.
Measuring whether a Safeguard is implemented need not be a binary yes or
no; for instance, it could be a numerical score indicating how many
endpoints in an environment have implemented that Safeguard. Measuring
how well a Safegaurd is implemented looks more to the intended effect of
the Safeguard examining whether the desired security gains are being
realized. Measuring whether a Safeguard is implemented often involves
checking whether something is configured in a certain way, while
measuring how well often requires more involved checks including more
active testing.

While both of these measurement approaches are useful and have their
place, for this first version of CAS, we have focused on measuring
whether a Safeguard has been implemented (which we have termed Level 1
checks). It is our hope that future versions of CAS will expand to
include measurements of how well a Safeguard is implemented as well
(which we have termed Level 2 checks).

Specific configuration details are not specified in CAS, as these would
vary from platform to platform, and would encroach on \"how to
measure\". When there are multiple ways to implement a Sub-Control, CAS
attempts to be generic enough to cover these varying methods in its
measures. Where assumptions are made, CAS attempts to explicitly state
them.

## Structure of a Safeguard Measurement

This section describes the standard structure of a Safeguard Measurement
in CAS.

### Basic CIS Safeguard Information

This section includes the Safeguard number, title, description, asset
type, security function, and implementation group. This information
matches the information in the CIS Controls v8.0 document.

### Assumptions

Assumptions are provided inside of the section to which they are most
applicable, or not in any specific section if they are general to the
entire Safeguard measurement.

### Safeguard Dependencies

This is an optional section that may not appear for all Safeguard
measurements. When present, this section lists any other Safeguard that
are prerequisites for measuring this Safeguard. Completion of the
Safeguard specified in this section will typically generate data
necessary as an Input for measuring this Safeguard.

### Inputs

This section includes the data that is expected as an input in order to
measure this Safeguard.

### Operations

This section specifies actions to be performed on the inputs in order to
generate the measures. The operations provide a linkage between the
inputs and measures.

### Measures

This section describes the information that should be measured,
generally as a result of performing operations on the inputs. Measures
are combined to form metrics.

### Metrics

This section describes standard metrics that can be calculated from the
measures, providing a description of the metric along with the formula
for calculating the metric. In general, CAS attempts to frame metrics in
a positive light - i.e., the ratio of items that are compliant with the
Safeguard (as opposed to the ratio of items that are not compliant). The
provided metrics are not meant to be an exhausive list of metrics,
rather it is just meant to list some examples of common metrics that are
likely to be useful. The hope is that if appropriate measures have been
defined, other metrics can be built from those measures to suit
different use cases.

### Procedure Review

This is an optional section that may not appear for all Safeguard
measurements. When present, this section describes a manual review of a
procedure that helps fulfill the Safeguard.

## Versioning

CAS follows a semantic versioning approach based on semver.org and
having the following format: [major.minor.point]{.title-ref}.

-   Major: Significant and material changes to
    -   The organization of the document
    -   Structure of sub-control measures
    -   Inputs, measures, metrics on the whole
-   Minor: Material changes to parts of sub-control measures or metrics
-   Point: Immaterial changes, such as prose typos, document look and
    feel
