# CIS Control 12: Network Infrastructure Management

Establish, implement, and actively manage (track, report, correct)
network devices, in order to prevent attackers from exploiting
vulnerable network services and access points.

**Why is this CIS Control Critical?**

Secure network infrastructure is an essential defense against attacks.
This includes an appropriate security architecture, addressing
vulnerabilities that are, often times, introduced with default settings,
monitoring for changes, and reassessment of current configurations.
Network infrastructure includes devices such as physical and virtualized
gateways, firewalls, wireless access points, routers, and switches.

Default configurations for network devices are geared for
ease-of-deployment and ease-of-use -- not security. Potential default
vulnerabilities include open services and ports, default accounts and
passwords (including service accounts), support for older vulnerable
protocols, and pre-installation of unneeded software. Attackers search
for vulnerable default settings, gaps or inconsistencies in firewall
rule sets, routers, and switches and use those holes to penetrate
defenses. They exploit flaws in these devices to gain access to
networks, redirect traffic on a network, and intercept data while in
transmission.

Network security is a constantly changing environment that necessitates
regular re-evaluation of architecture diagrams, configurations, access
controls, and allowed traffic flows. Attackers take advantage of network
device configurations becoming less secure over time as users demand
exceptions for specific business needs. Sometimes the exceptions are
deployed, but not removed when they are no longer applicable to the
business's needs. In some cases, the security risk of an exception is
neither properly analyzed nor measured against the associated business
need and can change over time.

::: {#toc-control-12 .toctree maxdepth="1"}
12.1: Ensure Network Infrastructure is Up-to-Date \<control-12.1\> 12.2:
Establish and Maintain a Secure Network Architecture \<control-12.2\>
12.3: Securely Manage Network Infrastructure \<control-12.3\> 12.4:
Establish and Maintain Architecture Diagram(s) \<control-12.4\> 12.5:
Centralize Network Authentication, Authorization, and Auditing (AAA)
\<control-12.5\> 12.6: Use of Secure Network Management and
Communication ProtocolsÂ  \<control-12.6\> 12.7: Ensure Remote Devices
Utilize a VPN and are Connecting to an Enterprise's AAA Infrastructure
\<control-12.7\> 12.8: Establish and Maintain Dedicated Computing
Resources for All Administrative Work \<control-12.8\>
:::
