# CIS Control 7: Continuous Vulnerability Management

Develop a plan to continuously assess and track vulnerabilities in all
enterprise assets within the enterprise's infrastructure in order to
remediate, and minimize the window of opportunity for attackers.
Monitor public and private industry sources for new threats and
vulnerability information.

**Why is this CIS Control Critical?**

Cyber defenders are constantly being challenged by attackers who are
looking for vulnerabilities within their infrastructure to exploit and
gain access. Defenders must have timely threat information available to
them about software updates, patches, security advisories, threat
bulletins, etc., and they should regularly review their environment to
identify these vulnerabilities before the attackers do. Understanding
and managing vulnerabilities is a continuous activity, requiring focus
of time, attention, and resources.

Attackers have access to the same information and can often take
advantage of vulnerabilities more quickly than an enterprise can
remediate. While there is a gap in time from a vulnerability being known
to when it is patched, defenders can prioritize which vulnerabilities
are most impactful to the enterprise or likely to be exploited first
due to ease of use. For example, when researchers or the community
report new vulnerabilities, vendors have to develop and deploy patches,
indicators of compromise (IOCs), and updates. Defenders need to assess
the risk of the new vulnerability to the enterprise, regression-test
patches, and install the patch.

There is never perfection in this process. Attackers might be using an
exploit to a vulnerability that is not known within the security
community. They might have developed an exploit to this vulnerability,
referred to as a "zero-day" exploit. Once the vulnerability is known in
the community, the process mentioned above starts. Therefore, defenders
must keep in mind that an exploit might already exist when the
vulnerability is widely socialized. Sometimes vulnerabilities might be
known within a closed community (e.g., vendor still developing a fix)
for weeks, months, or years before it is disclosed publicly. Defenders
have to be aware that there might always be vulnerabilities they cannot
remediate and, therefore, need to use other controls to mitigate.

Enterprises that do not assess their infrastructure for vulnerabilities
and proactively address discovered flaws face a significant likelihood
of having their enterprise assets compromised. Defenders face particular
challenges in scaling remediation across an entire enterprise and
prioritizing actions with conflicting priorities while not impacting
the enterprise's business or mission.
